---
layout: post
title: What the Future Holds
categories: Outreachy
---

As I'm getting closer to the end of my [Outreachy](https://www.outreachy.org) internship with Mozilla, it's time to start thinking about what's next. It took me some time to reflect on my past work experiences and come up with the career options I consider exciting.

I used to be a Data/Analytics Developer and happily worked in this role for some years. I must say, I learned a lot of stuff on both tech and people sides during that time. But things change. It happened to me when I started learning Rust out of curiosity and made my first contributions to open source. As a result of a chain of serendipitous events, I got accepted as an Outreachy intern with Mozilla. And eventually, I decided to try to pivot my career into some other role in tech. I'm pretty sure that my background will come handy in my future job.

Of course, the most natural choice is to apply for positions that are relevant to my prior experience: I imagine I will have better chances to land a job quickly. But honestly, I'd like to try myself in something different from what I did before. So I'm pretty much open to any SE or Ops role, in which I'd be useful straight away but also be able to grow.

It'd be great to work on an open-source project. But I consider it more like a perk, not a dealbreaker. What's more important are what kind of problems a company solves, a team and its culture, and a possibility to learn on the job. Taking into consideration that I learn faster from discussions with others, I would definitely love to work on a team. I had worked solo for two years in the past - I had nobody to learn from and to exchange opinions with. And I didn't like it. Oh, and as I got used to working remotely (been doing it for years), I would be looking for remote job options.

Anyway, these are the thoughts I have right now about my future career. I know they are rather eclectic and don't look like a rock-solid plan. But I like to keep all opportunities open :)
